[Music]
Berrien egg in your garden and see what
happens a few days later a lot of people
are under the wrong impression that
gardening costs a fortune nowadays
because chemical fertilizers are so
expensive you might be surprised to know
that your backyard can produce an
amazing harvest without leaving you
penniless raw eggs or eggshells the most
important thing for healthy plants is
good soil that's why if you grow your
plants and pots with soil put a raw egg
at the bottom of each one given some
time the egg will start decomposing
allowing it to serve as an all-natural
and harmless fertilizer for your potted
plants would you rather save your eggs
to make delicious omelets that's fine
just don't throw away the shells egg
shells contain elements like nitrogen
plus ferric acid and calcium all of
which make for a perfect fertilizer for
example calcium is a vitally important
plant nutrient that plays a major role
in the creation and growth of cells if
you want your plans to be healthy and
grow fast their roots need enough
calcium just like your bones do so after
you're done making breakfast turn those
eggshells into some fertilizer there are
two ways to do it first you can use
empty eggshells as tiny pots for
seedlings to do so start by washing the
shells be careful not to break them they
need to be able to hold the plant then
put some soil inside each of them and
plant your seedlings there when you feel
that the time has come to release your
little baby plants into the real world
aka your garden place them there
together with their containers the shell
will decompose and supply your plants
with the necessary amounts of nutrients
to help them go strong and help
if you don't feel like washing eggshells
or maybe you broke all of them in an
attempt to make little seedling pots
there's another alternative for you
the other way to prepare a fertilizer is
to crush eggshells into a powder and
sprinkle it on the ground around the
plants it'll work just as effectively
coffee grounds just as you get that
indescribable satisfaction from your
morning's first steaming cup of joe so
the tomatoes roses avocados blueberries
and other acid loving plants when coffee
grounds have been added to their soil
the difference between you and your
plants is that you are most affected by
the caffeine while they benefit more
from the nitrogen phosphorous acid and
potash yeah who knew that other stuff
isn't coffee to simply sprinkle the soil
around your plants with dry coffee
grounds before you water them you can
also use coffee grounds in the liquid
form if you want to try this way just
pour five gallons of water over five or
six cups of coffee grounds leave it for
three days and then pour the resulting
mixture on the soil where your plants
are growing hmm I wonder if plants
prefer Folgers or Maxwell House banana
skins
bananas are just as good for plants as
they are for humans and it works out
perfectly because you get the delicious
insides of the banana while your plants
will be perfectly happy with the peel
the potassium phosphate sulfur calcium
magnesium and sodium that banana peels
contain will help the plants grow fast
strong and healthy just cut your banana
peels into small pieces so that they'll
decompose faster and more widespread
bury them in the garden soil and it'll
become rich and fertile just don't slip
on any peels while you're trying this
trick wood ash you'll definitely like
this one if you have a fireplace or an
outdoor fire pit plus it'll be really
relaxing to sit by the fire and wait for
the ash this method for raising the pH
level of the soil is absolutely free and
moderately simple especially if you
often have a fire burning anyway
burn some hardwood without lighter fluid
or charcoal as it will harm the plants
once your fire has burned enough to
leave some ashes and supply you with a
whole lot of delicious s'mores wait for
them to cool down the ashes not your
s'mores although you should wait for
those to cool down too before eating
them out after that sprinkle the ashes
around to supply the soil with calcium
carbonate and potassium the ash will
lower the acidity of the soil so don't
use it in the areas where you keep acid
loving plants you know the ones that
love copper oh and please remember to
take extra precautions with anything
involving fire can be safe
aquarium water
a lot of store-bought fertilizers often
contain fish emulsion as an ingredient
this is because fish manure is really
beneficial for plants as it contains a
well-balanced mixture of potassium
phosphorus and nitrogen seeing a trend
here so if you're a happy owner of an
aquarium you can get twice the pleasure
out of it
watch your cute little swimming beauties
and fertilize your plants save the dirty
water in a bucket after cleaning your
aquarium and use this nutrient packed
liquid to water your plants however use
only fresh water if you have a saltwater
tank that's totally awesome to have but
it's a big no-no for plants also don't
use the water if you recently used
antibiotics to treat your fish because
the water will destroy useful bacteria
living in the soil seaweed another
natural fertilizer having to do with
water the seaweed
it contains micro elements that are a
favourite food for soil-dwelling
bacteria you can use both the fresh and
dried versions of seaweed to improve the
quality of your soil you don't even need
to wash it to get rid of the salt before
putting it into the ground take some sea
wheat and chop it up then put it in a
bucket and pour in about five gallons of
water cover it and let it sit for about
three weeks just don't cover it too
tightly after that water your plants and
soil with the resulting solution use two
cups for smaller plants four cups for
medium-sized plants and six for big
plants
Epsom salt Epsom salt is the household
name for magnesium sulfate a mineral
compound that has a variety of uses one
of them is a powerful fertilizer if your
soil has a low pH level this usually
indicates that there's a magnesium
imbalance if this is the case Epsom salt
is just what you need take one
tablespoon of Epsom salt add it to one
gallon of water spray the mixture on
your plants once a month the foliage
will happily soak up a healthy serving
of sulfur and magnesium the pH level in
the soil or increase leaves don't rake
the leaves off your garden in the fall
let them be and kill two birds with one
stone we won't waste your time and
energy on a strenuous and essentially
useless ask and at the same time you'll
get a perfect fertilizer for your garden
the rotting leaves will provide the soil
with the necessary nutrients to prepare
it for the next planting season the
organic matter they turn into will get
back into the soil and make it rich
ensuring a nice harvest for the next
season
there are some other simple methods to
make your soil fertile that might sound
weird at first but are in fact super
effective gelatin it's a great source of
nitrogen that is especially beneficial
for house plants simply stir one packet
of gelatin in a cup of hot water and
then mix it with three more cups of
lukewarm or cold water pour it on the
ground around your plants every month
hair yep you've heard correctly human
dog cat or even horse hair is full of
nitrogen and it keeps deer away from
snacking in your garden put it in the
soil and wait for the results oh and
just ignore the weird stares from your
neighbors matches kicking it a little
old-school here since not many people
still use easy strike matches anymore
but if you do good for you because these
bad boys are a perfect source of
magnesium for soil simply stick an
unused match in the hole together with a
plant you may want to soak the match
with some water first to help the
magnesium dissolve faster powdered milk
powdered milk isn't just for humans you
know it's a great source of calcium for
plants as well just add powdered milk to
the soil before you start planting your
flowers or vegetables green tea again
not just for people green tea and rich
of the soil and helps the plants stay
healthy you can either use a weak
solution of this drink one tea bag for
two gallons of water to water the plants
once a month or put green tea leaves
straight into the ground now you can
have a tea party with your garden do you
have your own gardening secrets tell us
in the comments below and share your
experience and achievements successful
gardening is something to be proud of
you
remember to appreciate this video with
the light if it can get 10,000 likes
we'll show you the biggest fruits and
vegetables ever grown so stay tuned into
all the newest videos hit the subscribe
button and join us on the bright side of
life
[Music]